<pre>
     Upgrade Report for koji-hub.batlab.org from SL5 to SL6


1. Wed, 2015-01-28

I started the upgrade at 10:00am by first shutting down the build
daemons (kojid) on kojibuilder{1,2,3}.  Then I shut down kojira, kojid
and httpd (in that order) on koji-hub itself, followed by running
/sbin/poweroff on koji-hub.  Then I shut down the postgresql database on
db-01 and created a full snapshot of the /var/lib/pgsql directory.

The original plan called for partitioning the disk as follows:
 * 40G for /var/lib/mock
 * 20G for /
 * 20G for /home
 * Remainder for /mnt/koji
This resembled the partitioning scheme on the SL5 install of koji-hub.
Following Moate's advice, we changed that to:
 * 40G for /var/lib/mock
 * 30G for /
 * 30G for /var
 * Remainder for /mnt/koji
since we didn't want a runaway logfile from taking down /, and we were
not worried about /home filling up.

We had some trouble with Cobbler, causing the OS install to not finish
until 2:45pm.  The rsync did not finish until 6:15pm, primarily due to
the huge number of small files inside /mnt/koji/work.  In my opinion,
that directory should get regularly pruned -- the only things there are
uploaded source RPMs (which get rebuilt and the new ones placed into
/mnt/koji/packages) and logs for non-build tasks such as createrepo (and
nobody cares about createrepo logs from three months ago).

While waiting for the rsync to complete, I followed the other parts of
the Koji-Hub Restore Recipe.  I did the steps out of order (since the
recipe puts the rsync near the end, not at the beginning -- something
that ought to be fixed), and therefore missed the step of enabling the
osg-development repos for specific packages (needed because we don't
ship the package for the signing plugin, koji-plugin-sign, in
production).  This caused the web interface to display stack traces
instead, because koji could not find the signing plugin.

After fixing that, Carl and I performed several tests: regenerating
repos, making both scratch builds and non-scratch builds, tagging and
promoting packages, and installing packages from the minefield repo.
All of this worked fine.


2. Thu, 2015-01-29

Carl was reporting consistent build failures on all platforms, with
roughly the same error: a missing file called pkgorigins.gz.  kojid
expected this file to be present in the build repositories it uses, but
repositories that were regenerated after the SL6 update had the file
with a different name: <some hash>-pkgorigins.gz.  This was most likely
caused by the version difference in createrepo between SL5 and SL6.

This did not affect yum installs because what yum does is read a file
called repomd.xml to get the actual filename for pkgorigins.gz and reads
that; but kojid had pkgorigins.gz hardcoded.  I shut down kojira to keep
it from creating new unusable repos, and applied a band-aid fix (read: a
symlink) so that we could keep building temporarily.  I then found the
line in the kojid source code that referenced pkgorigins.gz, and gave it
to Carl, who then went through the upstream git for koji to find the
commit where they fixed this problem, and backported the patch to our
version.

After Carl built the patches koji, I updated kojid on koji-hub and all
three build machines, restarted kojid and tested it by making scratch
builds of osg-build for both 3.2 and 3.1 (to try the buildroots that I
had not fixed manually).  They were all successful.


3. Fri, 2015-01-30

Carl had problems installing from minefield on el5.  Strangely, only the
VM universe tests were affected -- an install from Fermicloud worked
fine.  The message was: "[Errno -3] Error performing checksum"

My hypothesis was that createrepo was generating sha256 checksums
instead of sha1 and that was breaking el5 yum.  Presumably Fermicloud
machines had a patched or newer yum.  Note that this would not have
affected the build repos: build repos are composed of multiple repos, so
after createrepo runs, a process called mergerepos is also runs, and
mergerepos does force sha1 checksums.

I wrote a patch for kojid and installed it on koji-hub.  The other build
machines did not need to be upgraded because createrepo tasks only run
on koji-hub.  I regenerated the 3.2 el5 development repos and asked Carl
to launch another set of VMU tests using minefield to verify that the
new repos were usable.  They were.


4. Thu, 2015-02-05

We left the old drives in koji-hub (in case we needed the data from them
later).  That meant there were two different OS installs on the machine
at the same time, and we wanted to be sure that the next time the
machine booted, it would boot from the drives containing the SL6
installation and not the SL5 installation.

Since the old disks were in the first two drive bays, that meant they
were considered first in the boot order, so unless we changed something,
SL5 would get booted.  (The way the machine was previously booted into
SL6 was with the old disks removed, forcing the machine to boot from the
new disks instead).

One solution that we rejected was to swap which disks were in which
drive bays, i.e. put the SL6 disks in the first two drive bays and the
SL5 disks in the next two drive bays.  What complicated that option was
that the drives were configured differently: while all four drives were
plugged into the same RAID controller, the SL5 drives were bypassing it
and using software RAID instead (specifically LVM), whereas the SL6
drives were set up with hardware RAID.  We did not know how the RAID
controller would react if swapped the drives and we did not want to risk
losing the data on the drives, so we rejected this solution.

We also looked at the BIOS settings to see if we could change which
disks the BIOS would boot from.  Some BIOSes allow that; this one
didn't.

The solution we went with was to change the bootloader on the SL5
install to jump to the bootloader on the SL6 install.

Actually testing it required rebooting the machine.  Our plan was: we'd
start with both sets of drives in.  If our bootloader change worked, the
machine would boot from SL6.  If the change did not work, we'd take out
the old drives (which would put the machine back in the state it booted
successfully from last time), and the machine would boot from SL6.

We scheduled 20 minutes of downtime on for this.  We figured it was
pessimistic: we'd need one reboot if our change worked, or two reboots
if it didn't.  At five minutes a reboot, it would take ten minutes,
tops.

We actually ended up using 50 minutes, because not only did our change
not work (for some reason it just had not been applied), but our
fallback new-disks-only setup had also ceased to work, so we had to
troubleshoot to get everything working again.

The reason why the new-disks-only setup didn't work was because the
bootloader config on the new disks was messed up: it expected to boot
from the third drive (which was the first drive of the new set), but
when the old disks were removed, the third and fourth drives were
renumbered to be first and second instead.  Once we changed the config
to boot from the first drive, it worked.

This raises the question of why the new-disks-only setup had ever worked
in the first place.  My guess is that the bootloader config got updated
while the old disks were in place, which caused the drive numbers in the
config to get messed up.

We remade the change to the SL5 bootloader on the old disks to boot from
the new disks, and we fixed the SL6 bootloader to boot from the correct
disks.  There's two boot menu entries now: one for booting from the new
disks when the old disks are present, and one for booting from the new
disks when the old disks are absent.  The former is the default right
now; when we get rid of the old disks for good, we'll have to change the
default to the latter.
</pre>

   *  Set HTTP_EQUIV_ON_VIEW = <meta name="robots" content="noindex,nofollow">